what's up guys I'm going to break down
one of my recent videos and telling you
everything that went into making it this
video we broke the world record for most
cameras ever recording a single
production we really had just like
mental brain Parts I hate that no boy I
probably wore that suit for like 20
hours straight looks like it from Party
City oh I I mean we didn't have to take
it that far yes yes so good that that
was crazy things are funny and then they
become cringe when you do these just
like like things like people are like
what the freak you got to find like that
sweet spot in the middle yeah that
little moment changes the tone we're
watching YouTube cuz we want something
different than television you're very
good at what you
do what's up guys I'm going to break
down one of my recent videos ages 1
through 100 decides who wins 250 Grand
let's do it once again behind me are 100
people I'm going to pause it yeah so
this is our intro shot is everyone here
actually there or are these people cged
in it might look like they're CG in but
they're actually here so we lined them
all up this one I so the problem is I I
didn't want to keep them all too much so
I stood here did a take and then sent
them to their cubes and I did a couple
more takes so they might have overlaid
one of my other takes but no these these
people were here it was it a cool shot
then obviously here what we're trying to
do is make it very simple easy to
understand the concept because if I said
ages one through 100 decide who WIS 250
Grand not everyone understands what that
means you know what I mean like one and
100 what one dash 100 like what is was
it so this is like visually laid out
one-year-old all to 100-year-old then I
think this is where you know if someone
didn't get the concept now they do
they're like okay I get it he got 100
people 100 and they're going to be
competing for 250 yeah and that was yeah
so we blacked out the background because
at the start I just wanted you to focus
on them which maybe is why they look
like uh it's uh the people are CG and
weren't there they were there but it's
probably because they had to mask them
all out so they could black out the
background and then it's like all right
now I want you to focus on this other
stuff and have it dramatically pop up
the lights yes we cuz we have an ugly
ceiling so we kind of darkened in
between the lights so I think it's more
just bringing like four or five shots
together into one to really drive home
the point I wanted if that makes sense
yeah like the ultimate wide yeah
themselves who deserves the 250 Grand
first time showing the money Jimmy how
do you think about the amount of money
that you because at some point like the
money gets so big it's hard for us to
like compute yeah how do you think about
the dollar amount I've noticed whether I
say 100 Grand or 500 Grand no one knows
the difference like people it's like
they're just
a lot it's like to them large pile of
money so agreed like 250 I think the
original price was supposed to be 500
but as we were doing the video we went
so over budget that I was like okay I
need to like stop we and then so we end
up lowering the price pool a little bit
before we filmed because we were we were
spinning way too much everybody enter
your I hate that with that Lighting on
my face no buo wait wait wait wait this
suit also is it like it's kind of
crinkly looks looks like it's from Party
City like yeah oh who I I mean I don't
know if it's Party City we didn't have
to take it that far see that's the
problem with bad lighting though because
these wrinkles are more uh exacerbated
because the the shadows in it because
I'm not if I had frontal lighting here
you wouldn't even see them and why wear
a suit I know we talked about this
during our interview but why not wear
like your typical like hoodie or you
know what you wore like in other videos
well so we were talking about this on a
podcast we recorded I started you know
kind of trying to match the theme of the
videos because like if I was just
wearing shorts and a t-shirt kind of
like right now um then it's like we have
this huge multi-million dollar set all
these people in these tracksuits and
then I just look like I don't care so I
tried to start matching the environment
a little more so it you feel like you're
in a little Universe yeah wardrobe
matters yeah your cubes the challenge
has officially begun if any of you
decide to leave or even touch the red
line you will be eliminated how far do
you think you'll make it in the
challenge 100-year-old how do you think
about like the characters that you
introduced cuz this is kind of one of
the first moments that we're talking to
somebody who's on the side yeah and I
wanted to start off with a 100-year old
because it's like holy crap they
actually have a 100y old cuz when you
see this you're like wow they mean
business and it kind of reminds you that
it's about the ages and so cuz this
shots pretty quick going a whole way all
right let's see how the one-year-old and
then we go to the one-year-old again the
extreme cuz like you know if I started
with the 20-year-old and then I went to
The 40-Year-Old that's cool but like
starting with the 100-year old and then
going all the way down to the
one-year-old you're like wow and it
really reinforces like that this is
about the ages to see which age is the
best yeah and did you go into every
single Cube and have a conversation or
you just went into 101 no I picked
probably a handful and whatever you know
CU I obviously we've done a lot of these
videos so I kind of know like if I go to
35 we're probably not going to use it at
the start not in the intro
shot do you think you'll win the money
these sound effects yeah what what like
you I know some people are against the
vine booms but we use them ironically I
think it's funny cuz it like you know
here's the thing things are funny and
then they become cringe right and that
definitely for a long time was cringe
that sound effect and then they become
funny again and I think we're on the
Resurgence of funny with mind booms
that's funny
yeah uh have fun with the tablet this is
the line that's going to make it all the
way to the end 48 and we we've uh put
that clip there because if you actually
watch the video this guy it's ironic
because this guy right here is a reason
they all got out so this is
foreshadowing because he took the money
and eliminated them all and the fact
that we have a shot when we were editing
of him going this is the line that's
going to make it all the way to the end
watch it again make it all the way to
the end but he's the reason they all got
out is crazy so we put that there so if
you watch it a second time you kind of
notice this stuff focused and determined
but that didn't go for everybody if you
step out you lose that was crazy I went
over there to talk to the one-year-old
and it just walked out I think you can
kind of see it on my face the 2-year-old
is now I'm like not like high energy or
anything cuz I was just like oh okay um
as you'd expect the first to leave for
the
youngest did you have a good time well
ask it a year when he can speak and some
of the older folks such a good shot such
a filming this video six people have
been eliminated that's a cool effect and
even more are about to be got to drop
the bombs I so now you know we need to
show progression so we had this giant
screen we're filming on the stage this
is real this stuff you see here and then
we had X's pop up and in post we were
like oh that is lame so this is like
what we were going to do to show
progression and then this is what it
turned into because we're like n no one
of filming this video so then they
seamlessly transitioned into this people
and then instead of just putting little
x's on a stupid screen we carpet bombed
them been
eliminated much better even more I love
it it's like funny it makes like you
know if you've seen some of my videos it
might not be as funny but for like the
new first timers they're just like what
the freak like like when I watch
reaction videos of people we do these
just like like things like people like
holy crap it's so funny more are about
to be unlike this video right here that
was more of a last to leave this
challenge is about making friends look
at that God awful Lighting on my face we
we really had just like mental brain
farts on the the lighting at the start
like I mean I don't think there's
literally a single Photon hitting the
right side of my face I don't like the
way that looks yeah there could be a bit
more filer yeah so here we we mentioned
the last video because I was very
paranoid people would think it's the
same video so I was like unlike this
last video so people know like like if
they were kind of confused they know
it's a new video more the last leave
this challenge is about making
friendships and convincing people to
like you they decide who wins the 250
Grand and I didn't know it yet but this
video was by far the most intense video
we've ever filmed it really was how do
you think about the foreshadowing in the
coming up usually so this is where I es
and PLS I used to think foreshadowing to
be honest is a little cringe but this is
a 40-minute video and it's like I want
people to know it's good and I have to
like I have to do it because it's it's
either foreshadowing or just go guys I
know it's 40 minutes but trust me it'll
be and you'll be like what like but this
like shows you all the cool stuff coming
up and so I think the longer the video
is the more especially on YouTube the
more important foreshadowing is yeah
Jimmy the next moment I want to fast
forward to is when you start to
introduce this villain storyline for one
of the contestants oh this is a good
part of the video um let's play it
potentially eliminate her oh oh the
geoart oh this one hurts so maybe give
context of what's going on before the
the villain comes in yeah so we are
spinning a wheel and then what whatever
number it lands on the person with the
mic has to decide whether or not to
eliminate that person and if you don't
they get the mic but the the thing is if
you give up the mic there's nothing that
says the wheel won't land on your number
and then they you know eliminate you so
it's like you know it's a low
probability but you know it's in your
best interest to eliminate everyone else
and it gets pretty cut throat and so the
wheel landed on the 11-year-old Gio who
was in our first video crowd favorite
very high energy awesome great character
will just lands on Gio and then this is
what happened this means a lot to Gio
don't take this decision lately you can
feel it in my
voice GI that yeah that that like that
was crazy watch what 42 said is that
11 Gio that was wild I'm in the cube to
and I heard 42 say that I was like
whoa that's when I knew like oh he's a
character did you did you when you were
doing like pre-cast like did you get a
sense that this guy could be like the
villainz there needs to be here look she
it's the wheels on her but there's
here's the thing like there's no way we
could this is the problem right and this
is why it's really hard to tell stories
on YouTube there's no way we could
guarantee the wheel lands on 43 right so
okay well let's say the wheel landed on
50 and 50 eliminated everyone now 42 is
just not even in the video right so it's
like or he's in the video but not at
this caliber so no like we could not
have predicted that on the theoretical
third challenge we'd spin a wheel and
with two % probability to land on her
and then he still wouldn't be eliminated
and then be in the background talking in
your ear no and so that's um you know
that's where you have to have all these
cameras recording cuz even decision
light is that see like this is just the
camera there and this is what I was
telling you about in the podcast this
video we broke the world record for most
cameras ever recording a single
production and why normal people can't
do this is there normally wouldn't have
been a camera there and he has another
camera in his Cube and they're rolling
the whole time so we're able to get this
stuff if not I I don't even know if he
was in the background of my shot it
would have been unusable yeah that
little moment changes the tone of
everything exactly being able to cut to
it which is why we leave these cameras
running even if it means you know a
thousand hour or a thousand days or
whatever worth of footage you know one
of the things that stuck with me when
spending time with Jimmy both in this
video as well as going behind the scenes
of his bigger shoots which we'll share
on this channel here in a few weeks is
meeting the different people who help
make his videos but as creators who are
nowhere near as big as Mr Beast it's
hard to find great talent or do
everything ourselves that's where Fiverr
comes in Fiverr is a leading Marketplace
for digital freelance services and the
sponsor of today's video whether you're
looking for a thumbnail designer editor
audio engineer music producer or writer
there are talented Freelancers on Fiverr
who can help improve your videos
actually one of my other next videos is
a deep dive into analyzing the careers
of 100 top YouTubers and we even hired a
statistician off Fiverr to help us with
that plus searching for Freelancers and
filtering by skill level budget and turn
around time is super easy best of all
you'll get 10% off your next order if
you use my code USI 10 or click the link
in the description fvr
r.co USI y u s h AEI all right now back
to the video is that
11 yeah that's
crazy don't cry yet it's not over I want
you to listen to me very carefully the
next few seconds determine a lot Gio's
psychological warfare it's up to you
that person not to El going to watch
this oh that you are a kind person
but see how it makes you feel you are
kind enough to not eliminate me but see
how like I mean you look that was
probably like 10 seconds of Gio and we
let it for the most part breathe like we
cut the show 43's face but years ago we
would not have set this up like this we
would have been like all right Gio what
are you saying and Gio would have been
like don't eliminate me and then we
would have come back to 43 and blah blah
but it's like you we can watch it one
more time M it's up to you to convince
that person not to eliminate you you
understand look at that see all that
time where Gio didn't even say anything
there for maybe like two seconds but
we're letting you soak in the scene and
feel the emotion which is like you know
it's just something we didn't used to do
and I'm trying to get really good at it
and like we're going to get better with
this at time but I think it just
elevates it right because normally we
would have cut that out it would have
been Gio and then Gio would have started
talking but it's like Gio and the music
and you're feeling it and like I feel
something when I watch this I feel sad
for Gio you are a kind person
and you are cled enough the Riser sound
effect it's good it's hitting you to not
eliminate
me look at that I mean this is 18
seconds 19 seconds it's like this is a
long
time and then I love it's like like
showing how much support Gio has not
just the interaction between two people
entire group and then seeing her
reaction to it too and like clearly it's
causing mental strain on her also seeing
how my suit is better lit now and it's
less wrinkly no Jimmy we need somebody
to steam your suit manad like what
collar like like there's like well that
yeah well that bow tie was was a little
too uh small yeah but it's good it's
good no it's fine yeah I also the I
agree with the steing suit but just for
even more context we're filming these
like I mean random intervals of the day
yeah so you got to put it on yeah like
that that I basically I probably wore
that suit for like 20 hours straight cuz
of like filming stuff cuz like this like
you don't see the Sun out but this might
like 3:00 a.m. wow cuz we're just like
cranking through this setting up
challenges and stuff so yeah I mean I'm
just like I probably like before the
shot went outside and did like a
two-hour walk taking phone calls and
then walked in brushed the dirt
off fair enough but anyways back to what
matters the emotion of the scene don't
do it now is not the time to develop a
heart such a good line I can't believe
he said that and that people wait crazy
with on Tik Tok play some of the clips
uh now is not a time to develop a heart
oh my God good we're 30 seconds in I
mean like this entire bit in the past
would be 30 seconds on my channel I'm so
happy that we're like doing this okay
okay Gio I admire you so much you are
literally yes yes so
good so good does he how aware do you
think he is like did you have any
conversations with him on set like oh of
course we're talking with them we're
letting him like know like yeah your
energy is great keep whatever you're
doing is awesome so uh yeah I mean we're
we're antagonizing it and be like bro
people are going to love this this is
crazy and I I I would tell them like bro
I've never had someone be so honest and
like just speak so openly like this is
cool wow yeah he is great literally the
coolest 11-year-old I've ever seen
you've got tons of energy and spunk and
your future is super
bright but unfortunately your time here
is over I'm so so sorry that hurts all
right everyone was absolutely those are
real everyone of I mean we're look
Gio is one of 15 people eliminated and
that was a 53 second scene wow it's
crazy and it hits and it feels right it
doesn't feel drawn out but it's like
because there's spectrums to it right
there's you could take it to optimize it
fast and then it's exhausting you know
kind of what I used to do years ago but
then you can take it too far which is if
you go all out traditional and just do
what they do on movies and stuff and
television just doesn't work on YouTube
it's boring it's not we're not here for
that we're we're watching YouTube
because we want something different than
television we don't just want television
on YouTube so I feel like it's like the
right blend of like you know this is too
fast this is basically TV and you got to
find like that sweet spot in the middle
and before we were here I think we're
kind of here we still have a little bit
more to go on the storytelling side
which is what I'm excited
about I feel so bad about this
elimination that I actually had age 11
come up and help me on stage give it up
for Gio at this point everyone outside
of the I was really worried I was like
man I I don't want Gio to to cry and I
was like please be happy help help and
then Gio instantly cheered up oh I love
how yeah and then you speed ramp it from
here ex so let's fast forward through it
now a lot of people have been eliminated
um you did a challenge in the middle
before the end challenge to give
$250,000 to somebody who did what yeah
so basically blacked out all the cubes
and I said if only one of you leaves
I'll give you 250k but if more than one
of you leaves you both get nothing or
all of you get nothing anyone who leaves
so they're all blacked out um and 42
instantly yells I'm leaving no one step
out or you'll also get nothing you
everyone knew 48 42 was telling the
truth when he stepped out but 58 was
like I don't want him to walk away with
250k and sacrificed himself or I mean I
I'm speaking on his behalf I don't know
maybe maybe he just thought no one
actually got out but from what I can
tell I think he sacrificed himself to
like screw him out of the money and um
and yeah it was wild I I didn't know
this happened so when the timer hit zero
I thought like 42 had one and I was like
wow that was all right oh wow yeah and
then time is up let's see if someone
just in this moment I think I'm I think
like literally these guys know and are
about to tell me I I don't know exactly
what order this this is but I'm pretty
sure like they're about to be like Jimmy
58 stepped out and I was like what the
it's crazy one a quarter cuz I was
also doing an ad read during all this so
I was like in a different like head
space I was just how do you think about
the ad read like when it's an unscripted
live show with hundreds of contestants
like yeah it's a it's a lot you know
that's where for this it's we did it in
front of the money and stuff like that
and it could have been better honestly
I'm glad we're not watching the ad cuz
don't get me started it could have been
better but you know quarter of a million
dollars guard drop the
curtains the music man it's just like
ramping up it's good I mean the editors
killed it on this video and like music I
don't know anything about I mean that's
the team we have putting this stuff
together like they're they're awesome
speak we think about sound design so
much in our intros and trailers like I
freaking love it you look around you'll
see that 42 was the only one to step
out until look at their faces oh my gosh
two seconds remained and someone all the
way over there stepped out at the last
second okay in my interview with Mr
Beast I announced that we're going to be
giving away these signed time magazines
I'm so excited to announce the first two
winners we got one more that I want to
give away to folks who subscribe and
ring the notification Bell and as a
bonus if you sign up for our newsletter
I'm going to send you all the graphics
and everything from the interview
including my takeaways that a lot of you
have been asking for and if you don't
already know our newsletter is one of
the best emails you could get as a
Creator every week I'll send you some of
the best outlier videos thumbnails of
the week and news so you stay up to date
all right now back to the video the last
thing I want to fast forward to is the
the ending because I feel like these are
more and more heartfelt um so you had
everyone in a room decide uh basically
who should win mhm this is how it would
look 48's idea is pretty simple everyone
chooses in order who they think deserves
the money the most and whoever appears
at the top of all the lists the most
consistently will win the money it's
crazy too like I mean cuz obviously they
decided who got here and a lot of this
was up to the team's choices it's wild
that
4748 you know who were like together and
almost in Alliance throughout the whole
entire thing made it this far they'll
final to 250k on the line and it shows
like cuz that's what I told them all at
the start make friends make alliances
like we encourage This and like the
people who did it the best weirdly made
it to the end and it's like there was a
lot of strategy in this and like some
people took advantage of it and others
didn't but as you know only one of them
can win this
$250,000 I came in second I had no idea
right here either that was I didn't know
winner that's crazy thank you Jesus
that was so good and we had these like
uh so we have as you can see like GoPro
here we had a GoPro I think over there
like we had cameras all over but like a
lot of these shots you're seeing before
we uh these are like sniper lenses and
it looks and like the motion following
her around too because if it like
compare the energy of that to like this
static shot feel how this see how this
feels flat so mixing that in which again
this is not me this is my team our
editors and everyone they camera people
are full class and good like I'm too
stupid but like when I see them do this
I'm like I get it and I see what they're
doing like CU if it was all static shots
like this it it just wouldn't feel right
like this is also CU it's punched in
it's a little flat but that that c GoPro
right there is a little too tight but
those I don't know there's something
about like a sniper L following someone
around while they're like with a motion
that like puts energy in the shot
patience 47 you struggle to eliminate
other players you built the strongest
aliance running them through everything
end you fought for those around you it's
crazy cuz she was it's wild that she won
because she also like one of these five
last people wanted to get out and she's
like no you deserve a shot and she was
so nice to people throughout everything
and like and is I don't know man that
was I I couldn't have wished for a
better winner but you know cuz like
imagine World War 42 had won everyone be
like pissed but it's like yeah I don't
know I mean but part of it too is
because she was so nice so many people
were rooting for her that helped her get
longer and deeper in the challenge I'm
not going to let her walk and that is
why 100 people ultimately decided that
that is your
$250,000 look at that that's a cool shot
and don't worry all four of them are to
walk away with $10,000 Grand it's been
absolutely
amazing this is crazy 47 we have one
final surprise for you come on
out mommy you made it so good love it
that I think the added element of
bringing the family and just yeah jimy
to see your style like develop and the
storytelling like the the it's just
amazing it was good yeah I think so when
we got to the final five in that big
Cube I uh we had all the families that
we could get uh on standby so we had
like um them all behind the the black
curtain over there so then um that
because everyone's like how did how did
you have a hundred families there it's
like guys there's only five in The Big
Cube and so we just had him on standby
for whoever won wow well dude I was
addicted watching this entertaining
inspiring even just watching it now I
kind of got lost back in the video such
a good video and it's so such a
wholesome ending the the family was so
they were so happy for their daughter it
was so good I like it we need to do more
of these yeah amazing all right that's
the breakdown cool yeah thanks J it's a
good video amazing